Polar integration (#461)
wasp-lang/open-saas: opensaas-sh/blog/src/content/docs/guides/payments-integration.mdx

You're now ready to start consuming Lemon Squeezy webhook events in local development.

> ## Polar

Reviewer: Another idea to think about: splitting this page into 3 pages (one for each payment providers since it's getting long) - I don't feel too strongly about this - I'll let you decide if that makes sense _right row_ or maybe with the next provider.

- Click on the `New Token` button to create a new token
- Give your token a name (e.g., "Open SaaS Development")
- Copy the generated token and paste it in your `.env.server` file, e.g. `POLAR_ACCESS_TOKEN=polar_oat_...`

### Create Test Products

To create test products in Polar, go to the `Products` section in your Polar dashboard.

- Click on the `New Product` button to create a new product
- Fill in the product details:
  - **Name**: e.g., "Hobby Plan", "Pro Plan", or "10 Credits"
  - **Description**: Brief description of what the product includes
  - **Pricing**: Select "Monthly" or "Yearly" for recurring plans or "One-time purchase" for credits, then configure the desired pricing type
- Configure any remaining optional fields, e.g. **Media**, **Checkout Fields**, **Metadata**, etc
- Click `Create Product`

After creating each product, you'll need to copy the Product ID from the product page and add it to your `.env.server` file:

```ini title=".env.server"
PAYMENTS_HOBBY_SUBSCRIPTION_PLAN_ID=<your-hobby-product-id>
PAYMENTS_PRO_SUBSCRIPTION_PLAN_ID=<your-pro-product-id>
PAYMENTS_CREDITS_10_PLAN_ID=<your-credits-product-id>

> ```

Reviewer: I feel like the previous section said "just create some products" and now we are specific three product we need to fill it. I'd maybe clarify it somewhere "this is what Open Saas comes with out of the box, you can of course change the plans like you want, make sure to modify the code ..."

**If we are not doing it for other payment providers as well**, I think we should, so it might be better handled with a separate issue. 

**If we are doing it for others**, let's just do it here as well.

:::note[Product ID Location]
The Product ID can be acquired on the product page in your Polar dashboard. Tap the `⠇` icon in the top-right corner, then select `Copy Product ID`.
:::

### Create and Use the Polar Webhook in Local Development

Polar notifies your Wasp app through a webhook (for example, when a payment succeeds). During development, you need to expose your locally running Wasp server (started with `wasp start`) to the internet. Because the Wasp server runs on port 3001 by default, run `ngrok` on the same port. `ngrok` will generate a public URL that you can give to Polar.

To do this, first make sure you have installed [`ngrok`](https://ngrok.com/docs/getting-started/).

Once `ngrok` is installed and your Wasp app is running, run:

```sh
ngrok http 3001

> ```

Reviewer: One extra tip for Ngrok, if users go to https://dashboard.ngrok.com/domains they can get their fixed domain which they can use like:
```
ngrok http 3001 --url <subdomain>.ngrok-free.app
```

And it will always be `https://<subdomain>.ngrok-free.app`

<Image src={ngrok} alt="ngrok" loading="lazy" />

`ngrok` will display a forwarding address. Copy this address and append `/payments-webhook` to it. This path is already configured in `main.wasp` under the `api paymentsWebhook` definition. It should look something like this: 

```sh title="Callback URL"
https://89e5-2003-c7-153c-72a5-f837.ngrok-free.app/payments-webhook
```

Next, configure the webhook in your Polar dashboard:

> - Go to `Webhooks` page under `Settings`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Go to `Settings > Webhooks` page.
```
Nitpick

You're now ready to start consuming Lemon Squeezy webhook events in local development.

## Polar

First, make sure you've defined your payment processor in `src/payment/paymentProcessor.ts`, as described in the [important first steps](#important-first-steps).

Next, you'll need to create a Polar account. You can do that [here](https://polar.sh).

:::tip[Star our Repo on GitHub! 🌟]
We've packed in a ton of features and love into this SaaS starter, and offer it all to you for free!

If you're finding this template and its guides useful, consider giving us [a star on GitHub](https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp)
:::

### Enable Sandbox Mode

> For local development and testing, you'll want to use Polar's sandbox mode. The Polar sandbox is fully isolated, so there are separate URLs for the [sandbox dashboard](https://sandbox.polar.sh/dashboard) and [live dashboard](https://polar.sh/dashboard), each with independent products, sales, access tokens, etc. Add the following to your `.env.server` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For local development and testing, you'll want to use Polar's sandbox mode. The Polar sandbox is fully isolated, so there are separate URLs for the [sandbox dashboard](https://sandbox.polar.sh/dashboard) and [live dashboard](https://polar.sh/dashboard), each with independent products, sales, access tokens, etc. 

Add the following to your `.env.server` file:
```

This will make the instructions pop out:
<img width="796" height="203" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c851e08e-c7d6-493f-b786-3eca4572abd1" />

```ts title=".env.server"
POLAR_SANDBOX_MODE=true
```

:::note[Going Live]
When you're ready to go live, change this to `false`.
:::

### Get your Polar API Access Token

Once you've created your account, you'll need to get your API access token. You can do that by navigating to the `Developers` section under your dashboard settings and creating a new personal access token.

- Click on the `New Token` button to create a new token

> <Image src={addPolarToken} alt="How to create a new access token in Polar dashboard" loading="lazy" />

Reviewer 2: Before adding a picture you should ask yourself what value does it bring.

I would say that both 
`<Image src={addPolarToken} alt="How to create a new access token in Polar dashboard" loading="lazy" />`
and
`<Image src={addPolarProduct} alt="How to create a new product in Polar dashboard" loading="lazy" />`
don't provide much value.

They show you where the button is. Which is really straightforward.
That would be okay if the button was hidden, via some dropdown etc. But here it isn't.

Another bad thing is that this screenshot shows a state that users won't have.
You already have an active token on the image. This can confuse since their screens won't have it.
<img width="725" height="274" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3d8f962d-d08f-47ca-a79a-eb6eadb16259" />

I'd rather then just remove these two.

Why I asked for pictures below is because "Check the Polar dashboard for webhook event logs" is abstract.
Check for what? It's not really explained. But via the image they can see what they need to check for.

  - **Pricing**: Select "Monthly" or "Yearly" for recurring plans or "One-time purchase" for credits, then configure the desired pricing type
- Configure any remaining optional fields, e.g. **Media**, **Checkout Fields**, **Metadata**, etc
- Click `Create Product`

After creating each product, you'll need to copy the Product ID from the product page and add it to your `.env.server` file:

```ini title=".env.server"
PAYMENTS_HOBBY_SUBSCRIPTION_PLAN_ID=<your-hobby-product-id>
PAYMENTS_PRO_SUBSCRIPTION_PLAN_ID=<your-pro-product-id>
PAYMENTS_CREDITS_10_PLAN_ID=<your-credits-product-id>
```

:::note[Product ID Location]
The Product ID can be acquired on the product page in your Polar dashboard. Tap the `⠇` icon in the top-right corner, then select `Copy Product ID`.
:::

### Create and Use the Polar Webhook in Local Development

Polar notifies your Wasp app through a webhook (for example, when a payment succeeds). During development, you need to expose your locally running Wasp server (started with `wasp start`) to the internet. Because the Wasp server runs on port 3001 by default, run `ngrok` on the same port. `ngrok` will generate a public URL that you can give to Polar.

> To do this, first make sure you have installed [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/docs/getting-started/).

Reviewer 2: I've missed this one.

```suggestion
To do this, first make sure you have installed [`ngrok`](https://ngrok.com/docs/getting-started/).
```

Once `ngrok` is installed and your Wasp app is running, run:

```sh
ngrok http 3001
```

<Image src={ngrok} alt="ngrok" loading="lazy" />

`ngrok` will display a forwarding address. Copy this address and append `/payments-webhook` to it. This path is already configured in `main.wasp` under the `api paymentsWebhook` definition. It should look something like this: 

```sh title="Callback URL"
https://89e5-2003-c7-153c-72a5-f837.ngrok-free.app/payments-webhook
```

Next, configure the webhook in your Polar dashboard:

- Go to `Webhooks` page under `Settings`
- Click `Add Endpoint` to create a new endpoint

> - In the URL field, paste your ngrok forwarding address and append `/payments-webhook` (for example: `https://abc123.ngrok-free.app/payments-webhook`).

Reviewer 2: I went over grammar mostly last time.
Now I noticed that above we say "Copy this address and append `/payments-webhook` to it." and then we repeat the same here. Let's improve it:

```suggestion
- In the URL field, paste your `ngrok` forwarding address with `/payments-webhook` appended (for example: `https://abc123.ngrok-free.app/payments-webhook`).
```

- Set the `Format` to `"Raw"`
- Select the following events to listen for:
  - `order.paid`
  - `subscription.updated`
- Click `Save`
- Copy the generated webhook secret and add it to your `.env.server` file:

```ini title=".env.server"
POLAR_WEBHOOK_SECRET=polar_whs_...
```

### Testing Payments via the Local Application

> Make sure that your **ngrok tunnel is running** and that the webhook is configured as described above.

Reviewer 2: Consistency.

```suggestion
Make sure that your **`ngrok` tunnel is running** and that the webhook is configured as described above.
```
